Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from www.OpenSubtitles.org
-[lively chatter]
-[bright music playing]
-[hushed chatter]
-[somber music playing]
[music fades]
[somber music plays]
Are you ready?
[priest] As we commit
Lord Kilmartin's earthly remains
to their final resting place.
we are reminded
of the transient nature of life
and the fragile beauty of human existence.
May his spirit find everlasting peace
in the heavenly kingdom.
My elder brother Anthony would usually
be the one to speak in times like this. so
I apologize in advance.
Standing before you.
I know I'm supposed to say
something profound.
But to be honest. I am rather at a loss.
This is an unfathomable tragedy
for Lord Kilmartin's family.
for my sister Francesca.
for my family. for all of us.
What makes this death so difficult to bear
is not just its suddenness.
but… the fact he was a good man.
one of the best of us.
always guided by
an unshakable sense of integrity.
His devotion to his family.
to his seat in Parliament.
and most especially
to my sister Francesca.
it was unwavering.
There's nothing I can say
to make sense of this loss.
or to… fill the void we're all feeling.
All I can offer is this.
We will cherish our memory of John
and be forever grateful to have known
such an exceptional human being.
[soft. solemn music playing]
Forgive me. I was not able to…
No. Thank you. You did well.
Would you like a moment alone?
It is not necessary.
-There is far too much to oversee at home.
-The servants will have everything set up.
-You might wish to spend a last moment...
-I…
Would like to see that all is in order.
I will meet you at the carriage.
[solemn music rises]
[music fades]
-[woman 1. muffled] Such a terrible loss.
-[woman 2] Felled by a common headache.
[volume increasing] So very… shocking.
Indeed.
Thank you both for coming.
Is this all not rather morbid?
It is a funeral.
It is not morbid. It is… proper.
Because heaven forbid
death be anything but orderly.
Lady Danbury.
Francesca.
Lord Kilmartin was a fine man.
I liked him very much.
Yes.
I did as well.
Obviously.
Please do enjoy the refreshments.
My condolences to you.
And to you.
These arrived from Anthony and Kate. dear.
Thank you.
Some of my children feel devastated
they are unable to attend.
Much of our family also could not travel
down from Scotland in time.
I am most relieved
I was already in London.
and most appreciative that you volunteered
to host the reception today.
Well… I would have hosted
at Kilmartin House.
-I thought the servants here might be…
-There is no need to explain.
I could not imagine hosting
when my husband died. dear.
It was my honor. Your son was
a cherished part of this family.
[Janet] He adored your Francesca.
I will never forget
when he came home the night they met.
Stars in his eyes.
-Oh no.
-Is this too overwhelming. dear?
No. I…
You're running out of biscuits.
that is all.
-Biscuits?
-The guests will expect them.
Please excuse me.
Mrs. Wilson.
For you.
You've been so attentive to Francesca.
I thought I might tend to you.
This is very kind of you.
Is this what Papa's funeral was like?
I was not born.
The rest of you got to be there.
You were there.
You were in Mama's belly.
Biscuit?
Francesca. surely
a servant will help with those.
Please allow me.
Thank you. but I am quite capable.
Ahem. Let us all have a biscuit. shall we?
Do you know what are in these?
I have always wondered. Hm.
No. I…
Uh. treacle. I imagine.
Mm. What else do you think?
I taste vanilla.
Mmm… Something spicy.
-Ginger. maybe?
-[Eloise] Mm.
Flour. Probably a little salt.
and perhaps… um…
Mr. Bridgerton.
Ladies.
-[lady 1] Our deepest condolences.
-[Benedict] Thank you for being here.
Are you truly all right. sister?
I'm so sorry.
-Hyacinth. please. Do not...
-I cannot believe he is gone.
[heartbeat thumping]
-[Sophie] Lady Kilmartin.
-Mm-hmm.
Your hair. it is coming undone.
Perhaps we might go upstairs.
and I can attend to it for you.
[clears throat]
[pensive music playing]
Thank you.
For giving me some respite.
I am simply doing my job. my lady.
If only I were doing mine.
I think you are doing admirably.
At my father's funeral. there was
a very large tray of pickled salmon.
All I could do was think
how my father detested pickled salmon.
I wanted to throw the tray and scream.
And did you?
I came close.
But I realized we all know
different versions of the same person.
Perhaps someone thought
he loved pickled salmon.
The best any of us can do is honor
the memories of those we have loved.
And let them live on through us.
How does one do that?
Well. I always try
to think logically like my father.
And for my mother. I wear her necklace.
I must have forgotten it today.
[clears throat] Thank you for your help.
I had better return.
or my mother will fear I have fled.
If you need more respite… give me a nod.
and I will slip some brandy in your drink.
Not even an invitation
to a funeral from the Bridgertons.
Their reputation for warmth is undeserved.
At least Rosamund has a new suitor.
and one of rather high rank. even.
No. thank you.
[Araminta] We are fortunate
in Lord Stotter's interest.
You do not know
how distraught your sister has been
after failing to capture
Mr. Bridgerton's affection.
She had her heart set on that match.
[Posy] Perhaps it is for the best.
She and Mr. Bridgerton
may not have been well suited.
Rosamund is well suited to anyone.
She could charm a statue
if it were not for Sophie's interference.
Sophie?
Is that why we went looking for Sophie
at Bridgerton House the other week?
Because you suspect she has formed
an attachment to Mr. Bridgerton?
It would not be the first time
she interfered in our lives.
Do you know where Sophie is working. Posy?
No! I… I hardly know how to stitch
my embroidery in the right direction.
let alone keep track
of Sophie's whereabouts.
[chuckles incredulously]
Very well.
I will have to find her myself. then.
-[Lord Stotter] And you enjoy dancing?
-[Rosamund] The cotillion is my favorite.
My governess said
I was excelling at all forms.
-I prefer a waltz.
-[Rosamund] Oh. I too prefer a waltz.
What are you doing out here?
It is very cold.
Uh. I merely wanted to feel something.
Other than despair.
So I chose to feel cold.
-Is it helping?
-Not particularly.
They are in need of more mint
for the refreshments.
I shall leave you be shortly.
[scissors snipping]
It was kind of you
to stay for the funeral.
You have been great comfort
to Eloise and Hyacinth.
As have you.
They are very fortunate to have you.
you know.
Hm.
I am so sorry for your loss.
It's all right. Sophie.
You are not required to give me comfort.
I know that.
I know it is not a condition
of my employment. but
my heart is breaking for you.
[solemn music plays]
For all of you.
You are still planning on leaving?
At the end of the week.
-After the family has had some time.
-Yes. of course. As you should.
I wish you luck. Sophie.
Please go inside. I cannot send you off
to your new position with influenza.
-I can stay a moment if you...
-No.
Forgive me.
[gentle music plays]
I am trying desperately
to be strong for my family.
for Francesca. on this dreadful day.
And if you stay. I am afraid
I will not be able to hold it together.
I understand.
If I do not see you again…
Goodbye. Mr. Bridgerton.
Goodbye. Sophie.
[music fades]
My entire life.
I have found comfort in silence.
Presumably because I never found any
growing up amongst all my siblings.
But now…
Now. I should be grateful
if you might fill it.
I dare say this is the longest
I have ever seen you go without talking.
I am merely enjoying the peace
of not having to listen
to one more stranger
apologize for my loss.
Everyone is simply
trying to be respectful.
Yes.
I realize it is proper here
to speak in euphemisms
and act as if we are statues
in the face of death.
You know.
in Scotland.
a life lost is celebrated
instead of mourned.
Everyone eats.
drinks.
tells stories of the dead.
cries. and…
[sighing] …laughs.
Is that not a little…
Indulgent?
In fact. it can be rather cathartic.
Joyful. even.
Perhaps we could still have
a celebration for a smaller group here
at Kilmartin House.
[scoffs] I am sorry if you found
the funeral lacking.
You did a splendid job. Francesca.
I was merely suggesting a celebration
so that John might be remembered
not for his death but for his life.
I knew John better than I know myself.
and I truly believe he would not want
to be the cause of tears or sorrow.
He was a Scotsman.
He would not want
to be mourned by strangers.
He would want his life rejoiced at
by family. friends. his wife.
He would want for us
to get up and dance and...
John does not want anything!
He is dead. Gone.
And turning his funeral into a circus
will not change that.
[sighs]
[Violet] It meant a great deal
having you at the funeral.
I do not know
what we will do without you. Agatha.
I am not leaving for another two weeks.
so there are plenty
of goodbyes still to say.
-And I will not be gone forever.
-I am happy for you.
I think I am still in disbelief
that the Queen granted me leave to go.
[Violet chuckles]
I hear you are making
a life change of your own
with my brother?
You… You know of our…?
I do not believe he told anyone else.
He would have been a fool not to ask.
I am
delighted for you both.
Thank you.
Only. I am…
-Violet.
-[sighs] Hmm.
Is everything all right?
Yes! Yes. of course!
I. uh…
I simply feel
that in the wake of John's passing…
Your mind is on Francesca.
Indeed.
I am rather concerned that
she is not allowing herself to grieve.
Give her time.
We both know
it is a winding and illogical road
to mourn a lost love.
She is not in her right mind.
[pensive music playing]
Are you all right. Sophie?
You look as though
you did not sleep a wink.
I lost my necklace.
I spent half the night searching for it.
What does it look like?
It is a silver chain
with an amethyst pendant.
-Do you know when you last saw it?
-I have no idea.
I hardly notice when I am wearing it
as I so rarely take it off.
Deliveries are here!
Make haste!
I will look out for it. Sophie.
Perhaps this is the heavens telling you
you should not leave us for Penwood House.
No. it is merely telling me
that I have been unforgivably careless.
I have been so caught up.
I lost the only piece
of my mother I ever had.
We will find it.
Will Michaela be joining us?
I do not believe so.
We are giving each other space.
which suits me well as I am rather busy
with my correspondence
to John's relatives.
Surely you do not need
to write to all of them now?
People deserve to know.
Writing certainly can be cathartic.
Sometimes when I am feeling lost.
I find that writing steadies me.
I am steady.
Ahem.
Francesca. you do not need to be.
You are amongst family. If you would like
to throw something or scream…
Eloise. please.
that is not how I wish to proceed.
I should like to stay… calm.
But you need not.
Yes. I do.
[exhales]
I am with child.
My courses were supposed to arrive
days ago. but they never came.
Well…
That is splendid news.
John has left me with a gift.
a piece of himself.
Just as Father left Mother with Hyacinth.
So. if I must remain calm
for the sake of our child
and the future of the Kilmartin line.
so be it.
It is a worthy cause.
I am delighted for you. sister.
Thank you.
But… let us just keep this
between ourselves for now
until I speak to the men
from the House of Lords.
Of course.
How is Lady Kilmartin faring?
She is faring as best she can. I imagine.
[Charlotte] Mmm.
It is quite a cruel twist of fate
to lose one's husband
at such a tender age.
I imagine it cruel
to lose one's husband at any age.
And yet. for some of us.
a release.
Mmm.
What was she wearing at the funeral?
Lady Kilmartin.
If one must endure.
I do hope she at least was enduring
in a… marvelous ensemble.
She looked quite elegant.
[Charlotte] Mm.
These bonbons do not taste the same.
It is a shame when a good thing changes.
You know. Charlotte.
there is a fortnight yet before I leave.
Yes. I know.
I should like the bonbons
from Switzerland instead.
Perhaps I should arrange
for some new exotic animal
to be imported for the grounds.
I will write. Charlotte.
I am sad. Agatha.
It is a sad time.
Yes. Goodbyes are never easy.
Particularly as I have
just bid farewell to Whistledown.
She would have written something profound
about Lord Kilmartin's passing.
not to mention a detailed report
of the funereal fashions.
beyond "elegant."
Hmm.
It would have been something
to look forward to.
I miss her.
Mrs. Mondrich.
I should like to hold Mercury now.
Your Majesty.
[dog whines softly]
-[barks]
-Oh. [chuckles]
She is quite excitable.
Mmm…
Perhaps the bitch needs
some water to cool down.
There you are.
Here I am.
I hope I am not interrupting.
I have just sent word
to the House of Lords
to arrange their visit with Francesca
concerning the Kilmartin estate.
-I will attend as well. of course.
-Thank you.
Well. for all you have done
in Anthony's absence.
Are you all right?
It is not me you should be worrying about.
We are most fortunate
that Sophie remained to help.
-I do hope she will…
-Please do not bring her up.
-I know. it has been a difficult week.
-Not today. please!
It is all a tad hypocritical.
do you not think?
What is hypocritical?
You.
You spent our entire lives
claiming the one thing that matters
is marrying a love match.
For years I did not understand it.
nor want it. In fact. I ran from it.
And now…
Now I have found someone I love.
more than I could
even have thought possible.
Someone captivating and maddening
and real. just as you wanted.
Just as Daphne and Anthony
and Colin and Francesca…
You love her?
It does not signify. does it?
She is not of the right class.
so I cannot be with her. not truly.
I must let her go.
as if she means nothing.
Tell me. is that what you would have done
had father been of the lower classes?
Tossed your love aside
to search for someone of proper breeding?
Forgive me.
[quietly] Where is it?
Are you looking for something?
No. Lady Bridgerton.
I simply noticed some… dust.
[chuckles] Pardon me.
I wanted to thank you
for staying on to help with the funeral.
Oh. it is the least I could do.
I do regret that I am leaving
at such a difficult time.
Well. you must do what is best for you.
Sophie?
Is it because of Benedict
that you feel you must depart?
Why did you not dismiss me?
Well. perhaps I should have done.
but I like you.
You are the sort of woman
I would like for my son…
If I were not a maid.
You must know
it is not Mr. Bridgerton's fault.
Your son is a good man. I…
I knew better.
Sophie.
if there is perhaps something about
your history that you have not shared…
Your accent. your education.
your proclivity for languages…
Perhaps if there is something
that you are running from?
No. I am a maid.
I am not a suitable match for your son.
I wish the world were different.
-[Hyacinth] Leave me alone. Gregory!
-[Gregory] It is all well.
-[Hyacinth] Get out!
-[clattering]
I tried talking sense into Hyacinth.
but she is highly unreasonable.
Mother should have stopped at seven.
[clattering continues]
What is going on in here?
I am simply ridding myself
of things I shall not need
as I have decided to delay my debut.
Or perhaps not to make my debut at all.
Odd. Same curtains. same ceiling.
yet surely I am in a foreign land.
What is the point of finding love
when your husband will probably die?
[breathing heavily]
Ah.
So this is about John.
Not only John.
Father. even Lord Featherington. all gone.
I have been taken up
with foolish fantasies
when all love truly brings
is hardship and sorrow.
I suppose it is… difficult.
Well. I. for one. want no part of it.
I have finally seen the wisdom
in what you have been telling me.
You were right all along. sister.
[light music playing]
[Marcus] How is Francesca?
Oh. what she is going through.
I would not wish on anyone.
Shall we?
[Violet] Losing someone unexpectedly.
it is as if your very breath
is ripped from you.
Your entire reality is shifted
within the blink of an eye.
It is natural
you must be thinking of Edmund.
Yes. I am.
I think about Nessa every day.
Anything you need.
I'm here for you.
There is one thing I must request.
I was wondering if we might keep
our betrothal to ourselves for a while.
only because I do not want our…
Our happy news to overshadow...
Say no more.
I have told only my sister.
Otherwise. we… we shall wait.
[bright music rises slowly]
-Alfie. what are you doing here?
-Looking for you.
You are so eager to see me
that you could not wait
until my return to Penwood House?
I am flattered.
That is why
I have been trying to find you.
I gave the new Lady Penwood
your note about delaying your start
till after the funeral.
but… she would not wait.
She hired someone else. I… I'm sorry.
What? Uh…
No. I have already given
my notice to Lady Bridgerton.
[sighs] Surely she will not mind
if you stay on a little longer?
I cannot… see Mr. Bridgerton.
It is torture. Alfie.
I only want to come home
to you. Irma. Rumsey.
-It is all I want.
-I know. We all wanted that. but…
We will find you another position.
There are so few just now.
I have heard of one opening
for a maid on Bruton Street.
That is far too close to Bridgerton House.
Perhaps I should return to the country.
I have heard of one other position.
A family in Mayfair is in need
of a lady's maid to help them move.
Their servants speak very highly of them.
I can do that.
-You know I am skilled at…
-They are moving to the Americas.
You would need to be
on a ship in three days.
[somber music playing]
Francesca.
This is Mr. Dundas
from the House of Lords.
Good day.
My condolences for your loss.
and apologies for the timing
of this visit. Lady Kilmartin.
-It's procedure.
-Quite right.
Despite the circumstances.
it is of the utmost importance
the lines of succession
are followed to the letter.
Your brother has been a tremendous help
with the paperwork. [chuckles]
I will be speaking
with the Stirling family next.
But. of course. there is
one question I must ask you first.
-As a formality. really.
-I am with child.
[Benedict] Sister…
[exhales] That is…
Wonderful news.
[chuckles] Indeed.
[inhales sharply] Well. then.
I shall alert the physician
for an examination at once.
Uh… examination?
[Dundas] Well. yes.
We must have confirmation.
Well. can you not simply
take her word for it?
Of course. Lady Kilmartin.
your word is of great value.
It is only that the Crown has grown quite
stringent when it comes to succession.
There is an estate and title at stake.
not to mention a seat in Parliament.
I… I do not wish to have an examination.
My sister has been through
a great loss. Mr. Dundas.
Any examination will have to wait.
Believe me. I sympathize.
But this is the way
society demands things be done.
I have had quite enough
of the demands of society
and its utterly antiquated way
of doing things!
This is an honorable family!
You have no idea of the sacrifices
we have made to maintain that honor!
I will not stand here
and let you pressure my sister
after the nightmare she's been through.
[exhales]
I assure you. Lady Kilmartin.
it will be swift and dignified.
And then. we can all take comfort
in knowing for certain.
Mm?
[somber music playing]
[hushed chatter]
[Benedict shouts]
-Forgive me. I heard a noise.
-I did not mean to startle you.
I have been tasked
with organizing John's affairs. and. uh…
I have misplaced a document.
You need not explain.
Please. I will do it.
It has been a hell of a week.
I know.
Every time I see you.
I am conscious it may be the last.
I hated how we said goodbye
at the funeral.
[soft piano music playing]
I. um…
Uh. I know.
Thank you.
Have you finished your tea?
-Yes.
-Shall I take you to your bedchamber?
-No.
-Would you like another cup of tea?
No. I should like to sleep in here.
In the drawing room? Francesca.
are you avoiding sleeping in your room?
I do not blame you.
I could not bear to be at Aubrey Hall
for months.
But being there. and… and facing it.
and… well. feeling it...
-Oh. stop it! Will you please stop it?
-I am so sorry. my dear. I…
I am only trying to...
You are trying to tell me
that you understand.
I can see it in your face.
even when you say nothing.
that we are the same now
because we have both lost our husbands.
but we are not the same.
You have eight children.
Eight… pieces of your husband
to remember him by.
Eight! Eight times
you did your wifely duty
and gave Father the gift of children.
What did I give John? Nothing!
-And I only have myself to blame.
-Francesca. none of this is your fault.
Oh. but it is! It is my fault.
I cursed it.
John wanted to have a child.
and it was my duty to give that to him.
to continue the Kilmartin line.
and I failed him!
I gave him nothing!
-[sobbing] I have nothing! I have nothing!
-It is all right.
[crying]
You are all right.
[sobbing] I have nothing.
-[Francesca sobbing]
-[mournful music playing]
[Mrs. Wilson] Can I bring you
some tea. my lady?
No. thank you. Mrs. Wilson.
Sometimes I sit here
and just stare at this portrait.
We were supposed to be in this together.
Edmund and I.
through every trial.
[tearfully] And the children.
they look to me for answers. and I…
I do not have all the answers.
He was supposed to be here.
If I may. ma'am.
The children do not need you
to have all the answers.
Or even half the answers.
They only need you to love them.
[solemn music playing]
Mrs. Wilson told me you were still here.
Mother.
I was just about to take my leave.
Shall I pour you a drink?
A strong one. perhaps.
-[liquid pouring]
-[containers clinking]
[Benedict sniffs]
[sighs]
I owe you an apology.
You know. I have been thinking about
your father quite a lot.
Of course.
That you were also very unlucky
to lose him when you did.
You were so young.
But for me. in many ways. I…
I was lucky.
I had a great love for a very long time.
Some people never get that.
After everything that has transpired.
I have found myself reflecting quite a lot
about love.
about… time not always being on our side.
I see. I did not realize
how strongly you felt about Sophie.
I… I assumed it was a flirtation.
a dalliance. I never imagined...
I should never have allowed it
to go that far.
Starting a life with someone
from another class is no easy feat.
-You would have to move to the country.
-Yes. we had discussed such plans.
-I would have gone back and forth.
-No. there'd be no going back and forth.
You would be ostracized by society.
both of you.
You would have to move there permanently.
I imagine that would be
a rather startling transition
for someone who has lived a life
as well-liked and privileged as you.
It is important that you understand
because there is one crucial sacrifice
you will have to make.
Your family.
And that is not to say we shall not speak.
but it will mostly be confined to letters.
We will not be able to visit
as often as we might like.
As… It could impact
your sister's prospects for marriage
if we are believed
to nurture a close relationship.
so we will miss birthdays
and weddings and countless…
Stop it. please!
There is truly no need for this.
Sophie does not want to be with me.
Oh. I very much doubt that is the case
if you asked her to marry you.
How strong did I pour that drink?
What you said…
Was correct.
All I have ever wanted for my children
was to find love.
So if you have found it.
you deserve to go after it
before it is too late.
If you marry Sophie. it will never change
how much I love you. Benedict.
And with that said.
I know my son. I know… I know my son.
I know that at times you can be…
Dare I say it?
Noncommittal.
[Benedict] Mm.
No. you must have me mistaken
for one of your other children.
[both laughing]
Promise me you will think
very carefully before making a decision.
Whatever you choose.
you must live with it forever.
We all will.
[intense string music rises]
[music peaks and fades]
We shall find you a dress
that cannot be ignored.
Lord Stotter will have
no choice but to propose.
[stifled chuckling]
I did not realize I was a jester.
Apologies. Mama.
It… It is only the thought
of a mere dress so bewitching
that a gentleman loses his free will.
Must be quite the magical dress indeed.
It will be. when I wear it.
I look forward to seeing it.
In fact. I think it wise
you stay behind today.
Your sister and I will have
a lengthy appointment at the modiste.
and then we may speak
to the magistrate afterwards
to see if he has heard any word of Sophie
or my shoe clips being pawned.
I am certain
you will enjoy some time here.
Undisturbed.
Well. I should be leaving now
to check on the household orders.
Um…
Shall I get you anything while I am out?
-No. Thank you. Varley.
-Mm.
I should like
to take the afternoon to read.
Mm.
In private.
[light music playing]
Miss Posy?
Shall I have some tea prepared for you?
Posy! What are you doing here?
Sophie.
[breathing heavily]
Oh.
I escaped out the drawing room window.
I did not want to risk
the servants seeing.
Then when I arrived.
I told that handsome footman
I misplaced my glove when we came for tea.
As he went to look. I ran up here.
I assumed your room would be
in the attic. like most ladies' maids.
though I had to check in three
different rooms before I found yours.
and thank goodness
no one else was up here.
I do not believe
I have ever felt so exhilarated in my…
I am rambling. and I do not have time.
I came to warn you
that we have moved in next door.
and my mama is intent on finding you.
She doesn't know you live here
as I have covered for you.
but she means to have you arrested
for the shoe clips.
[Sophie exhales deeply]
And she will surely find me
if I stay in Mayfair.
even if I leave Bridgerton House.
I am so sorry. Sophie.
The shoe clips are my fault.
It was very brave of you to come.
Thank you. but you must get back.
I…
I wish I had said this to you before.
but the things she has always said
about you. about your mother…
They are cruel and untrue.
That is kind of you to say.
I would not have survived
in that house without you.
You were always so kind and courageous.
You have the strongest will
of anyone I have ever known.
Perhaps you get that from your mother.
There is a job in the Americas.
It will keep me safe from your mother.
I will be on a ship in two days.
and. with any luck.
she and I shall never see
each other again.
I will miss you.
[bittersweet music playing]
Do not let her get the better of you.
You have a strong will of your own.
Now go.
[music fades]
Are you going to play something?
Benedict.
I did not realize you were here.
I wanted to see
how you are.
You have already taken on more
than enough by tending to the estate.
Mm.
I should have compelled
Mr. Dundas to delay the examination.
I am sorry I could not do more.
It would not have changed the outcome.
John wished for a child.
and I could not give him one.
[bright pianoforte melody rings out]
-You are rather good.
-Mm… This is all I know.
[playing stops]
When you were very young.
I would play this to make you laugh.
I hoped it might still work.
-You should have pursued pianoforte.
-[chuckles]
One of many things.
You do not give yourself
enough credit. Benedict.
Nor do you.
John may have wanted a child.
but above all else. he wanted you.
It was plain as day
to anyone around you
how much joy you brought him.
-You lit up his entire world.
-[inhales shakily]
Trust me. It was almost
insufferable for the rest of us.
-[laughs]
-Ah.
[Benedict chuckles]
[bright pianoforte melody]
[Benedict] Mm-hm.
[piano melody fading]
[solemn music builds slowly]
I thought
doing things the… proper way
made it the correct way.
I thought if I acted as though I was fine.
I would be.
[exhales sharply] But I am exhausted.
I should like to feel some joy.
I want to celebrate John's life.
Will you help me?
What do you mean. you lost her?
Well. she must have climbed out
of the window. ma'am.
I mean. how was I to know
the girl possessed such agility?
You were supposed to follow her
to see if she would lead us to Sophie.
[door opens]
[footsteps approaching]
Posy. How was your day?
Well spent. was it?
I suppose so. I read a novel.
I wish to speak to you.
I owe you an apology.
I've let my distress about Sophie
and the season get the better of me.
and. at times. perhaps I have
unfairly vented my frustrations on you.
Yes. well.
I've grown quite accustomed to it.
It started long before Sophie left.
I was much like you when I was younger.
It is obviously Rosamund
who is most similar to you.
Now. But before my debut.
before the marriage mart…
I was like you.
Joyful. Optimistic.
Unconcerned with propriety.
Clumsy.
I was lucky your father chose me.
considering I hardly knew
how to curtsy properly.
And then he died.
Do you know
what it is like for a young lady
with two small girls
to reenter the marriage mart?
I was already damaged goods.
so I could not afford a single misstep.
I had to be perfect in every way.
I was lucky to find a second match.
A love match at that.
But then Sophie appeared.
And once again.
I could not produce an heir.
And then he died as well.
Mama.
Do not feel sorry for me.
I clearly carry some kind of curse.
But I refuse to pass it down
to you and Rosamund.
which is why I insist on perfection.
And this match with Lord Stotter.
if your sister can see it through.
it may be the tide
that raises all our boats.
But not if Lord Stotter were ever to
find out about our connection to Sophie.
that you and Rosamund were both raised
with a bastard child at your side.
She is the stain on our name. Posy.
The thought that she's been
at Bridgerton House all this time.
seducing the man
that your sister had her heart set on…
I thought we confirmed
that she is not at Bridgerton House.
I thought so as well.
But Varley saw her at the market today
wearing a Bridgerton House uniform.
You need not go after her. Mama.
She is leaving for the Americas.
She will leave Bridgerton House soon.
and you can forget all about her.
I see.
What am I to do without you?
I cannot believe
you are abandoning us for Penwood House.
Who will help me keep this one in line
if you are gone? [chuckles]
Somehow I think
you will be up to the task.
[John chuckles]
What? Do not give me that look.
Not when you are still pretending
to go to Penwood House
rather than departing
for the Americas tomorrow.
Shh. It will only make
saying goodbye that much harder.
and I do not want to detract
from Lady Kilmartin's event tonight.
-When must you leave?
-Whilst the Bridgertons are out.
I am to aid my new employers
in finishing their packing this evening.
What about your mother's necklace?
You said you could not leave it.
In many ways. I think I wore it
all these years not to honor her.
but as a reminder of her mistakes.
Perhaps it is time to let it go
and leave the past with it.
You can do that
without crossing the ocean. you know.
I must get the ladies ready
for the festivities.
[up-tempo string music playing]
[exhales] Thank you all for coming.
It has been a harrowing set of days.
to say the least.
But tonight. let us do away with grief
and remember the remarkable man
that John was.
I shall go first.
John was my greatest friend
and partner in mischief since birth.
He was genuine. determined.
and had patience fit for a saint
to tolerate my nature.
-[light laughs]
-More like the patience of ten saints.
[warmer laughter rises]
He was my guiding light.
my compass.
We were opposite ends of the pendulum.
yet somehow we balanced each other.
I will miss you. dear cousin.
more than you will ever know.
Do not feel obligated.
but if anyone would like to speak…
To John.
A kinder gentleman. I have never known.
I always admired how deliberate John was.
He thought through everything
with such care.
Unless you got some brandy in him.
in which case. look out.
[scattered laughter]
[man] He was exceptionally nimble-footed.
You should have seen him
climbing trees as a boy.
Went up so high. I feared
we would never get him down again.
[loud laughter]
John may have been
a man of few words. but…
He saved them
for when they counted the most.
He knew the power of a gesture.
that actions speak louder.
He showed his heart
with the love he gave to Fran.
to all of us.
He shall be missed dearly.
but never forgotten.
-To John.
-[all] To John.
To John.
-Now. perhaps we might...
-I would like to speak.
[clears throat]
It seems…
Inconceivable
that he is gone.
I had our entire lives planned.
I thought I knew
exactly what the future held.
and now…
It was only a headache.
How could a headache take my husband away?
For days. all I could think
was how it is not fair.
John was a good man.
He deserved a better fate. a longer life.
But that is not how
I wish to remember him.
It is quite something to spend your
entire life feeling like you are somehow
out of place.
And then to meet someone who understands
you before you even say a word.
Someone whose
singular qualities match your own.
Whose kindness makes you feel warm.
Who can read your mind
from across a whole room.
John was more than my husband.
He was my truest friend.
And I may
ache at present. but…
The good John brought into my life.
that bond. that understanding. love.
far outweighs any pain I feel right now.
I would not change it.
For anything.
To my husband.
I thought I might perform
a Scottish Highland dance
that John and I learned as children.
[warm laughter]
Fran. will you join me?
-Yes. Yes.
-Go on. dear.
Go on. my dear. Go.
Follow my lead.
Right. This is the stag. everyone.
[Michaela laughing]
[scattered laughter]
-[laughing]
-Wonderful. Wonderful.
Right. then we'll go into spinning.
And spin.
Right. Arms. Arms.
What? Do not leave us
up here dancing alone.
Grab a partner.
-Come on. Pair up. Put your drinks down.
-[Benedict] Mother.
-[string music playing]
-Get into the stag. everyone.
One. two. three. four.
[music picks up]
[Michaela] Wonderful. And spin!
Lovely! Arms!
Switch!
Back to the beginning!
Stag! And let's go!
And spin!
Switch partners!
Thank you.
-Excuse me. Mother.
-Where are you going?
There is something I have to take care of
at Bridgeton House.
-It could not wait?
-I have waited long enough already.
Wait.
I have left something for you
in your desk.
It was my grandmother's.
[Violet laughs]
-[kisses]
-Go.
[spirited string music playing]
-[laughter and chattering]
-[spirited string music builds]
[galloping falls in rhythm]
[stomping falls in rhythm]
[music ends]
[poignant music builds slowly]
Sophie.
[music fades]
[intense music playing]
Is Sophie down here?
Mr. Bridgerton. is everything all right?
Whatever you need. we can bring it to you.
-Has she departed for Penwood House?
-Yes. Sir. I believe she has just left.
Then I will need my horse
so that I might ride there at once.
-Right away. Mr. Bridgerton.
-Wait! I mean. pardon me. sir.
But Sophie is not at Penwood House.
She accepted another position
with a family moving to the Americas.
The Americas? Are you certain?
She went to stay with them.
They plan to board a ship at dawn.
-What is the name of the family?
-I'm afraid I do not know. sir.
She would not tell me.
[Araminta] Sophie Baek.
Constable. this is the thief
I was telling you about.
Fortunately. we no longer
have to disturb the Bridgertons.
-I shall take that.
-Place your hands behind your back.
No. Please. sir. this is
a terrible mistake. I shall explain.
Sophie Baek. you are hereby arrested
on suspicion of thievery
and of impersonating nobility.
Wait. Wait. no. No.
Araminta. Araminta!
Do not... Araminta…
[panicked breaths]
Araminta. please!
[music rises]
[note holds and fades]
[note rises quickly]
Sophie!
[music picks up steadily]
[music peaks and fades out]
[closing theme music playing]
[music fades out]
Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from www.OpenSubtitles.org